feat: one-click SSO sign-in for organization domains (#141)
dfinity/icp-js-auth: docs/src/content/docs/one-click-sign-in.md

---
title: One-Click Sign-In

> description: Send users straight to a specific OpenID provider or to their organization's SSO, instead of the identity provider's own chooser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Send users straight to a specific OpenID provider or to their organization's SSO, instead of the user-chosen provider.
```

Reviewer: r does this repo abstract over II?

await authClient.signIn();
```

The identity provider resolves the organization's OpenID configuration from `https://dfinity.org/.well-known/ii-openid-configuration` and sends the user to the provider named there. Any organization that publishes that document can be signed in against, with nothing registered ahead of time.

The domain is normalized before it is sent: it is lowercased, IDNA-encoded, and must be a host with an optional port and nothing else. A value carrying a scheme, a path, a query, or a fragment throws.

If you pass a `derivationOrigin`, the client forwards it to the identity provider alongside the domain, so the ceremony resolves the client belonging to that origin:

```typescript
const authClient = new AuthClient({
  ssoDomain: 'dfinity.org',
  derivationOrigin: 'https://app.example.com',
});
```

## Validating a domain the user typed

An app that asks the user for their organization's domain can check it before signing in. `isValidSsoDomain` confirms the domain is well-formed and actually publishes an OpenID configuration:

```typescript
import { isValidSsoDomain } from '@icp-sdk/auth/client';

let controller: AbortController | undefined;

> input.addEventListener('input', () => {

Reviewer: This code snippet is not self-contained and hard to understand for an outsider. Please fix that

  controller?.abort();
  controller = new AbortController();
  const signal = controller.signal;

  isValidSsoDomain(input.value, signal)
    .then((valid) => {
      status.textContent = valid ? 'Ready to sign in' : 'No SSO configuration found';
    })
    .catch(() => {
      // Superseded by a later keystroke; a fresh check is already running.
    });
});
```

Three things to know about it:

> - The organization must serve `/.well-known/ii-openid-configuration` with `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`. It is a public, unauthenticated document, and a browser that cannot read it cannot check the domain.

Reviewer: Where are the contents of that file documented?

## Requesting attributes in the same step

When a sign-in goes to a known provider, attributes can be scoped to that same provider, and the user grants them as part of the one screen they are already on. `scopedKeys` builds those keys:

```typescript
import { AuthClient, scopedKeys } from '@icp-sdk/auth/client';

const authClient = new AuthClient({ openIdProvider: 'google' });

const signInPromise = authClient.signIn();
const attributesPromise = authClient.requestAttributes({
  keys: scopedKeys({ openIdProvider: 'google' }),
  nonce: () => fetchNonceFromYourBackend(),
});

await signInPromise;
const { data, signature } = await attributesPromise;
```

`scopedKeys({ openIdProvider: 'google' })` produces `openid:https://accounts.google.com:<key>` for `name`, `email`, and `verified_email`. The SSO form takes the domain instead:

```typescript
scopedKeys({ ssoDomain: 'dfinity.org' });
// ['sso:dfinity.org:name', 'sso:dfinity.org:email']

scopedKeys({ ssoDomain: 'dfinity.org', keys: ['email'] });
// ['sso:dfinity.org:email']
```

> `verified_email` is available under `openid:` but not under `sso:`. "Verified" means Internet Identity established that the user actually has access to the address — either by verifying it itself, or through a claim scheme it has hardcoded for a specific provider, such as Google, Apple, or Microsoft. It has no basis to make that claim about an address asserted by an arbitrary organization's SSO server, so the attribute is not offered under `sso:` at all.

Reviewer: Avoid "hardcoded" in the phrasing here. 

Just say that II established this either itself or indirectly from a public IdP (as opposed to an admin-controlled IdP)
